Readme.md, before:

## Download dumps
- Go to
- Go to https://dumps.wikimedia.org/wikidatawiki/entities/ and download `latest-truthy.nt.bz2`.
- Go to https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20241220/ and download `enwiki-20241220-page.sql.gz` and `enwiki-20241220-page_props.sql.gz`

## Filter Labels from the wikidata dump
The output file only has triples with label, altLabel, and description as predicate.
```
bzgrep -P '(http://www\\.w3\\.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#label|http://www\\.w3\\.org/2004/02/skos/core#altLabel|http://schema\\.org/description).*\\@en\s+.' latest-truthy.nt.bz2 | gzip -c > latest-truthy-labels-descriptions.nt.gz
```

## Load labels and description into a pickle file
```
python load_labels.py latest-truthy-labels-descriptions.nt.gz wikidata-labels.pickle
```

## Create Label mappings for Wikipedia Entities

Refer to the readme in services/mariadb: [Readme.md](services/mariadb/Readme.md)

## Download property labels
Go to https://hay.toolforge.org/propbrowse/ and Download all properties as JSON.

## Filter the properties
Use the notebook `filter_props.ipynb`

## Verbalize the triples using the labels
```
python verbalize_triples.py props_mapping ents_labels_wikidata ents_mapping_wikipedia wikidump.bz2 outfile.bz2 [num of triples for tqdm]
```

## Tokenize
Choose a model from huggingface for using its tokenizer, then run:
```
python generate_ctrie_big.py model verbalized_triples.bz2 outfile.pickle.bz2 [total_lines]
```

## Start postgres
```
cd services/postgres
sudo docker compose up -d
```

## Choose parameters for postgres population
- Choose an integer that will represent the root of the tree. It must not be a token_id in the tokenizer vocabulary. (The current implementations is for 2-bytes integers; max 65536). I used 60000.
- Choose the switch parameter N. After N hops in the tree you are going to load the entire subtree in memory. You can estimate the in-memory size with `estimate_subtree_mem_usage.py`. I used 8.

## Populate postgres
```
python populate_postgres.py /mnt/data/jupyterlab/rpozzi/ctrie_Phi-3-mini-128k-instruct_big.bz2 postgres://postgres:secret@10.0.0.118:5432/postgres 60000 5000000 8 709140000
```

Commit message:

Tokenize in batch
Update Readme.

Readme.md, after:

## Download dumps
- Go to
- Go to https://dumps.wikimedia.org/wikidatawiki/entities/ and download `latest-truthy.nt.bz2`.
- Go to https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20241220/ and download `enwiki-20241220-page.sql.gz` and `enwiki-20241220-page_props.sql.gz`

## Filter Labels from the wikidata dump
The output file only has triples with label, altLabel, and description as predicate.
```
bzgrep -P '(http://www\\.w3\\.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#label|http://www\\.w3\\.org/2004/02/skos/core#altLabel|http://schema\\.org/description).*\\@en\s+.' latest-truthy.nt.bz2 | gzip -c > latest-truthy-labels-descriptions.nt.gz
```

## Load labels and description into a pickle file
```
python load_labels.py latest-truthy-labels-descriptions.nt.gz wikidata-labels.pickle
```

## Create Label mappings for Wikipedia Entities

Refer to the readme in services/mariadb: [Readme.md](services/mariadb/Readme.md)

## Download property labels
Go to https://hay.toolforge.org/propbrowse/ and Download all properties as JSON.

## Filter the properties
Use the notebook `filter_props.ipynb`

## Verbalize the triples using the labels
```
python verbalize_triples.py props_mapping ents_labels_wikidata ents_mapping_wikipedia wikidump.bz2 verbalized_triples.bz2 [num_triples_for_tqdm]
```

## Tokenize
Choose a model from huggingface for using its tokenizer, then run:
```
python tokenize_triples.py model verbalized_triples.bz2 tokenized_triples.pickle.bz2 prefix endoftriple batch_size [num_triples]
```

## Start postgres
```
cd services/postgres
sudo docker compose up -d
```

## Choose parameters for postgres population
- Choose an integer that will represent the root of the tree. It must not be a token_id in the tokenizer vocabulary. I used 150000.
- Choose the switch parameter N. After N hops in the tree you are going to load the entire subtree in memory. You can estimate the in-memory size with `estimate_subtree_mem_usage.py`. I used 6.

## Populate postgres
```
python populate_postgres.py tokenized_triples.pickle.bz2 postgres://postgres:secret@host:port/postgres tablename rootkey batchsize switch_parameter [num_triples]
```
